Hey, guys, what's up?
This is a marathon, and I welcome you to another tutorial on this course on early on in this DORELLE,
we are going to continue on with regular expressions and move towards a bit advanced topics that are
related to regular expressions and ruby.
So the first thing we are going to cover is basically the expressions are you can see the different
regular expressions you can use on with arranges.
Now Ranges is a topic that you have covered in the previous tutorials if you haven't got a good hold
of that.
So I suggest you just go back and get a good hold of the Rangers topic first and then come back with
the story.
So if you have done good enough, you can continue on.
So basically there are certain expressions which stands for the short form of certain ranges.
For example, if you have a range that is 029 A to Z and capital to Capital Z, and also it includes
this underscore of a hill.
Then instead of writing this whole stuff over here, what you can do is that you can just write in backslash
W and that is going to do your job for the regular expression.
Then we have this backslash deep.
I guess it is a backslash.
If it is not, then it is a front line.
So I would just call it a slash.
So you've got this and that is the same as 029.
Then you've got the slash as that matches the white spaces, then you have the slash capital w that
is anything that's not in 029 A2 that that underscore that I guess includes the special characters.
Then you have got this back Shasti.
That is anything that's not a number, which means that it includes the uppercase lowercase and the.
Sequences of letters that are basically the special characters, then you have got this one that is
to s that is anything that is not a space.
So it is going to include all the things except this wall here that matches a white space.
So let's see some examples for how these regular expressions with ranges are going to get implemented
in Ruby.
So for that, we will just move on to item.
So we are going to define to Letrozole here, the first one is going to be, let's say one kuduro oakhill
and let's say we define the O'Haire, that is totally some kind of, let's say lateral.
So we are going to write and let's say three point one.
And now what we are going to do is that we are going to use the dart and the daughterly domestically
matches for all characters.
So if you just write in, if.
IDOT.
Match and in the parameters for this match where you're going to ride and you're going to ride and this,
then you have to ride in Backslash D and you have to ride in the dot operator, then you have to ride
in Backslash D.
And then this, so if you just try it in a Hilbert's.
Match found and in the EL statement, you are going to ride in boats.
Match not found just and this.
And I guess we have spelled this correctly, right, and this deed, then you have to write note and
then there's the finality of in this bracket close to good enough on this and it is going to say matchpoint.
Now, the reason behind this is since, you know, that backslash basically stands for letters from
zero to nine.
But here we have also got this dual here.
So you might be thinking that why it had generated.
Which means that it has generated match found help.
The reason behind this is this dot.
Right.
Here because we are using this dot and the dot literally basically matches for all kind of characters.
So that's why we have generated Drew for this condition.
And we have got this match found right here on your adumbration right now.
If you want to just skip this dot from here, then you can just specify this, a single backslash over
here again.
And that is basically going to escape this sequence.
Now, you have already covered a skipping sequences and you know how to escape sequences in Ruby.
So if you just specify a backslash over here, backslash over here and this dot in between, then that
is going to basically escape this as a sequence.
So now if you just run this code now, it is going to generate not found, because since it is now not
doing it for this, it is only doing it for backslash deal here.
And you know that backslash D if you just go back and see Cohill.
You can see that backstage is the same as zero to nine, so in here, since we also have a camera here,
so if you just skip this door from here, it is going to generate false.
And that's what Majnun form is going to get printed on your screen.
Now, if you do this very same for the B object.
Let's say you were here just right in this or on this code.
It is going to clearly say matchpoint because we have got this dot over here.
But in this case, if you just escape this dot from here, run this code, it is again going to say
matchpoint because it has escaped this sequence, no doubt.
But since Backslash D is present over here and it only contained numbers since the backslash is for
029 So in this case, we don't have any kind of alphabetical characters or any kind of special characters
over here.
So that's why a match is going to get generated just because of this backslash and it is going to generate
match found in both the cases.
So that's how basically you can have arranges use and you can use any of these, which we have listed
right in our slide.
You can use any of these in place of the range you want to use.
So the next topic we are going to cover in this tutorial basically deals with modifiers and their purposes.
So there are multiple modifiers you can use and be the first one is the plus operator, that is for
one or more characters, then we have the Starick that is for a zero or more characters.
Then we have the question mark that is for zero or one character.
Then we have the X and Y.
That is a number of correct if a number is between X and Y.
So it is if for numbers of character between X and Y is true, it is going to generate results, it
is going to generate false.
Then we have the x m where I is for ignoring the case when matching text.
So it is going to just ignore if a letter is in higher case or lower case, it is going to simply ignore
all that stuff and it is going to just match text without taking into account any kind of capitaland
small.
Then we have got this x y head that is for ignoring wide spaces and it is going to allow comments in
regular expressions as well.
Then you have got this and that is for matching multiple lines, recognizing new lines as normal characters.
And finally, we have got this USNA that our four interprets the regular expression as Unicode UTF eight,
you see SJS are USQUE.
Now here you need to know.
One thing is that regular expression is assumed to use the source.
Encoding of none of these modifiers is specified and it is going to use the source encoding.
So I guess it's time to go back to our editor to see some of the examples that are going to be related
to modifiers.
So just move on to Adam Brunner.
We will just remove the stuff from here, refresh this.
So to give you the simplest example of all, we are going to use the AI modifier.
And you know, that I modifier is used to ignore the case sensitivity.
So let's say you have a text that is A, B, C.
And you want to match, not to a check, it has a match found with a sequence.
That is.
From A to Z, but as you can see that I have ridden capital to Capital Z over here and in here, I have
just written small ABCL here.
So if I just store it in a variable X and just write and put Zuheir on this code, you can see that
it has simply generated Faulds because now it is considering into account capital gains and lowercase.
So in this case, since a C is in smoggiest and we are checking it with a range that is from capital
to capital Z.
So that's why it has generated false.
And you can see it right on your ATM, brother.
But if you use the I modifier or here, it is going to simply ignore the Gissing and it is going to
perform the matching and run it and it is going to return.
True.
As you can see, that just by specifying this area here that this sensitivity is gone.
It is no more a part of it.
And you can see that Drew has been generated, which means that ABC now is a part of this strange.
Now, we can also combine everything we have learned so far to create more complex, regular expressions.
For example, if you want to, let's check the validity of an IP address, then what you are going to
do is, for example, you have let's just remove this from here us and we will have a function that
is, let's say, IP address.
And in this IP address, what we're going to do is that we are going to receive the IP address that
is going to be stored in a.
So whatever is going to be done in this, that is going to be a part of later.
For now, let's go on and let's see what is an IP address.
So we are going to call in the function IP address.
And inhale, what we are going to do is that we are going to call this function twice first we are going
to call it with a valid IP address, and secondly, we are going to call it with an invalid IP address.
You know that a valid IP address looks something like one nine two dot one six eight Dodman dot one
are you can specify any kind of valid IP address.
Now, this o'haire is to return to whatever we are going to do is then this O'Haire, this calling over
is going to return.
True, because this is a valid IP address.
Now if we call this function.
I guess I have spelled it very right.
I have.
So now if I just specify, let's say zero zero zero zero zero zero zero zero, you know, that this
is an invalid IP address and this function is supposed to return false for this calling card.
So now let's go on and call dysfunctional health.
So in this one, we are going to use this, that we are going to use the exclamation mark, exclamation
mark on set to convert the return value to a boolean fust.
So we are going to add an exclamation exclamation and what is the purpose of exclamation exclamation?
It is going to convert a string to a boolean value.
So we are going to write and string and we are going to initialize a string with which this is going
to get matched because we are going to initialize our regular expression now with which this string
is going to get matched, because whatever is a part of this section or this tutorial in the previous
story, we have also got word that that we are going to match a string with a regular expression.
We have to initialize the regular expression.
We have to pass in a string to a function.
And that string is going to get matched with that regular expression we have initialize it and it has
a match.
It is going to return true as it is going to return false.
So in this I.P. address function, what we are going to do is that we are going to initialize a string
not sorry, not a string of regular expression.
And if this string Ohare we are passing into this function IP address.
If this matches the regular expression we are about to initialize, then it is going to return.
True as it is going to return false.
And as I said before that for this it is expected to return.
True.
And for this it is expected to return false.
So we are going to just get in right in equal to negation sign, this is how you initialize things and
just write in these two records.
SAWHILL And now we are going to use the previous concepts as well.
We are going to use had concepts as well.
So just try and this will help.
Just try and backslash D that stands for a number from zero to nine, and what we are going to do over
here is that we are going to also specify numbers from the X Y range over here as well.
So we are going to write in one three.
You are going to write in DOT, that is for.
And we are going to use it as a skipping sequence not, but we are going to use it normally, so that's
why we are going to just write in, backslash here, backslash here, so that this door to is escape.
And now you must be thinking that why you have to specify this door if you are to escape it.
That is because we want to have multiple regular expressions over here.
So that's why you have to use this door to help.
So that's alleged.
Again, you have to specify one commentary of a hill.
Then you have to again drive died because you want to use one more.
Just in one single hill.
Again, a dot.
Backslash de.
One Tree Hill.
And finally, a dollar sign.
And now what you have to do is that you have to simply end this function.
So I hope it works now.
So let's just run it and then I'll explain this regular expression one more time before we quit on,
so runit.
All right, we have to, I guess, right in Guzzo here as well, so just try and puts.
And also here as well.
Run this now and you can see that the first one has generated Drew and the second function calling has
basically generated false for us.
Now, what is going on over here actually, is that when this IP address is forced into this function,
it is going to get copied into the string and then the string is going to get matched with this.
But before that, we have to convert this into a boolean value.
So this is going to can get converted into a boolean value.
So that's why we have got this true or false over here and in here.
What we are going to do is that we are going to specify backslash.
Now, this is for the first matching.
That is one ninety-two that is postin.
Then this is called the second matching.
That is one sixty.
And this is for the third match.
Is that is one then.
This is for the fourth matching.
That is again one.
So you know that an IP address is, I guess, something like as a subnet mask of two five five two five
five five five to five, it cannot be greater than this.
So that's why we have written one, two, three.
So if the first letter of this starts from something else, from one to three, if it starts from zero,
then it is going to simply generate a false.
But if it is between one, two, three, that is in this case because the other two letters can be anything
you can just write in, anything will help.
But for this letter, you have to perform checks.
Now, you must be thinking, if this is true, then this this is doable here, then this has to be five
five over here how you can do that.
And that is a possibility over here as well.
And not just denying that possibility, but I guess that should be an assignment for you to do the checks
for these two numbers as well in case this is true.
So if this is not, you want to check if this is a number from one to three.
So if it is, then it is going to just return.
True.
And it is going to just go on to the next sequence matching, then it is going to search for the first
letter and it is going to just match it with this one over here.
Then third and fourth, finally.
And if everything is perfectly fine, it is going to generate a valid IP address and that's why it is
going to generate through because we have already converted it into a billion and a here for the first
MAGIN zero is going to get matched with this to console here.
It is going to simply generate files for the very first match and it is going to perform and it is simply
going to generate false over here.
So that's why you have got to for a valid IP address and false for an invalid IP address.
So I hope it is clear.
The next thing we are going to cover is about the exact string matching.
Now, if you need exact matches, you will need another type of modifier.
So let's see an example for how you can see what I'm talking about.
So let's just remove this stuff from here.
And what we are going to do is that, for example, we want to find if string is exactly, let's say,
four letters, long or not, then we are going to still match because it has more than four.
But if it is not what we want.
So let's just type in some.
Thing like regs are.
Who I know they are, so you are going to ride in the match function with this.
And in the bedroom.
What are you going to do over here is that you are going to specify backslash, backslash, that is
basically the syntax and well, here you are going to specify a backslash W and with a backslash W where
you're going to perform, you are going to write in four as a parameter.
So you in this what we are doing, we want to find if this string along here, we have specified that
is to school is exactly four letters long.
This will still match because it has more than four, but it's not what we want.
So if you just run this code, but before that we have to just store it in a variable.
We have to write and put X on it.
And you can see that it says RTG, which matches the four characters now.
But this is actually not what we want.
Instead, what we will do is that we will use the beginning of the line and end of the line.
Modifier is Abargil.
And what they are going to do is that they are going to tell us that the match has not been found.
So nearly nil is going to get printed.
Right.
It will help.
So to use them, what you have to do is to just write in the beginning on the line parameter over here
and you have to write in backslash over here, then this formula here.
And to this for what you have to write and you have to read in the dollar sign that stands for end of
the line.
So now if you just run this code, you can see that little has been done right now.
This time it won't match.
This is a rather contrived example, since we could just have used the DOT site to find the land, but
I think it would have gone away across.
The main idea here was that if you use it without these Abargil.
That are the beginning of the the end of the line modifiers, respectively, and you use the W4 over
here.
It is going to just match the first four letters and it is going to just print those letters out for
you by storing it in X.
And X is going to just print those letters right on the item around there.
But this is not what you want.
You want that if a letter is exactly four words long, then it is going to generate true as it is going
to simply generate false.
So here, let's say if you have four letters over here now, we use the beginning of the line and we
use the end of the line.
Modifier will help run this code.
Now it is going to generate RSG because our string here is exactly four letters long.
You just specify one more letter.
That is fifth letter verandahs it is going to generate.
That is exactly what what we want.
So if you want to match the string at the start of the string and not just on every line after a backslash,
and you need to use the backslash and backslides that instead, instead of the beginning of the line
and end of the line multiplier that are the this power and this a sign here.
Then we have the concept of capture groups in regular expression as well, with capture groups, we
can capture part of a match and reuse it later to capture a match.
We enclose the part we want to capture in parenthesis, so we will just remove it from help.
Now, whatever we have been covering so far, we have used this syntax for how to just initialize the
string.
So to initialize the regular expression with which you want to perform the match of a string.
But in this case it is very, very positive because with the compiler is doing over here is that the
method is going to create an object and then after that it is going to just perform the match.
Now, what if the.
Ruby compiler, or you can say the Ed in this case already has something that is the Maggette object
and you don't have to create it so that the editor work is just reduced.
So for that, what are you going to you do is that you're going to use the parsing concept now in the
introduction of regular expressions, I told you before that regular expressions are basically used
for two purposes that is validating and parsing.
Now, whatever we have covered so far was basically related to validating.
Now, in this example, what we are going to do is that we are going to use a body concept that is validating
and parsing.
So what we are going to do is that we are going to pass a log file that contains three things.
Let's say that is the time for which the file was created, then contains the type of the file and then
the message that is going to get stored.
So what we are going to do is that we are going to create.
A variable X that is going to create the line line for us is vital for us, that is going to be Strugnell
and in here we are going to specify the logs for the file that has three that it's time.
Then we have the type and then the third one is the message.
So now what we are going to do over here is that we are going to specify the lock format with which
it is going to distinguish here is going to get match.
And this is basically what we are going to pass into a function.
So we are going to specify lock format.
That is going to equal to backslash backslash, that is the syntax for regular expression, and in this
we are going to specify the expression we are going to use.
And so we are going to specify.
Multiple things that were here, the first one is, let's say Backslash D and we want to use this backslash
the web.
This perimetral here and we have specified do right over here and have to specify Callon, then that's
Nesh D.
Then do with it again.
And after that just exploded, move out and you can use the backslash over here as well.
Now, that is going to get used with a plus operator and then finally you are going to use it for the
directory option, you are going to write in Dot Starick.
So that is going to do the job for the directory.
So what is going on over here is that you have to specify it for three things.
The first one, that is the time, then the second one that is the type and the third one that is this
message right here.
So for this, it is going to perform almost everything for this.
It is going to just match the time.
This is going to be the format for the hours and this is going to be the format for the minutes.
Simple enough.
So now if you just go down and just create a function that is basically going to pass a file, so you're
going to write and pass line and it is going to receive a variable that is that is going to be a string
that is going to contain all these three arguments over here and in this function.
What we are going to do is that we are going to write in line dot match and the match first argument
is going to be the log format.
So we are going to just write and log and a score formate.
Just move out of it and we are going to create a block away here and what this blog is going to do is
that it is going to capture one argument at a time and it is going to match it with the regular expression
we have specified over here.
If it is a match, it is going to return.
True.
Else, it is going to just simply go out and it is going to just print out false for us.
So what we are going to do is that we are going to just create a bar A here and in the bars.
We are going to write a variable in which it is going to get store.
And now what we are going to do is that we are going to write in X dot new.
Stereogum dogcatchers captures, and that is where the concept of captures is going to get inside now
what it is going to capture is basically whatever we are going to pass into this function.
So let's just.
And this function, and I guess I just deleted the bracket from here.
So let's just specify it.
And I said this function, what we are going to do is that we are going to call this function simple.
So we are going to write and pass line here and in here.
We are going to pass in the three parameters that are expected to be received into this function.
So what we are going to do is that we are going to specify the time, let's say the time for now is
allowing forty one.
So I would just use the very same time, which is now space.
Then you have to write and the type, then a space and then you can use the type format that is let's
say.
Logged in.
And if you now just run this code.
It has generated error that says lock in Poznań, undefined variable X.
All right, this has to be line, not X, so we're going to just ride in line over here because it is
something that is building and we are going to also use line of a hill and now run this code.
And you can see that it is working perfectly.
Now, in this example, basically, we are using the dart match instead of the equal to a negation sign.
Now, this method is going to return a Majda object if there is a match.
Otherwise it is going to just return and nail the match that the glass has many useful methods.
If you want just a boolean value that is that the true or false, then you can use the match method,
which is available since Ruby two point four.
Now this also is a faster faster than the match, since Ruby does not need to create a Majda object.
Now you can access the captured data using the DOT capture method are treating the magida object like
an array.
The zero index will have the full match and consequent indexes will contain the match grub's.
So if you want to capture the first group, what you can do is that you can just specify that and you
can also you have the non capturing groups over here.
So for example.
Down here, what are you going to do is that you can just ride an equal to, let's say my name, my
age, let's say, and then you can just use dot match.
And in here, you can just specify the regular expression that is going to be the matching bar so you
can just ride in the place of a hill, and then what you can do is you can use the deep glass of a hill.
And the backslash is going to end as well, so that's for the regular expression to end.
And if you just write in one, then if you just remove this from here, run this code.
You can see that it is run perfectly now if you just ride in boats and one run escort, it is going
to give you the edge.
So that is if you want to only capture the first group.
But if I just press controls at certain times, this is basically use if you want to capture multiple
crops now in here, basically what's going on is that you can access the capture that are using the
capture method or treating the Majda object like an.
Now the zero index will have the full match and the consequent indexes will contain the matched grew
up.
So here are this capturers method.
What it is doing over here is that it is capturing the data, what ever has been passed and from this
function that is using the line functions.
Now, since this is the format we are going to match with and this is the regular expression with which
we want to match it.
This is the time.
This is the type.
And finally, this is the message over here.
And that is basically all done using the capture method.
So that is how capturing work.
Now, as I told you, you can also have non capturing groups and they will let you group expression
together without a performance penalty.
You may also find a named group useful for making complex expressions.
Very, very, very easy to understand.
So to give you an example of non capturing people just removed from here and noncapital and groups are
basically the questionmark, then you have the Scallan and then you have the triple.
So these are basically the non capturing groups and the non capturing.
We also have a type that is known as the name groups and that we have got the question mark.
Then we have got these brackets in which you can have certain data here, and then you have got this
data known as basically the named grub's.
So to give you a quick example for how this is going to work.
Let me give you let's say we have this X in which we have let's say my name.
Let's go on with the previous example.
And I was twenty five.
And use the DOT match and with this dot, imagine what we are going to do is that we are going to use
the non capturing groups over here.
So for that, you have to just write in the format for the regular expression.
And now what you're going to do that you're going to write in the name drops and not capturing a combination
of both.
So I'm going to write in a question mark and then you are going to just write in this stuff over here
that is basically namedrop and you are going to just write in whatever detail has been defined over
here.
So we are doing this stuff for the first argument with the strings of the first argument is my name,
so I will just name it as name.
So that's why it is known as name because you are giving the string certain names.
So in this string we have got to parts.
First is my name, second is my ID.
So we are going to define it with some names.
The first one is my name for we are going to define it with name.
And right after this, what we are going to do is that we are going to use the W plus to watch him and
after that we are going to just specify a space and we are going to do it the very same way.
For the second thing as well, that is the X, so we will just name it as each.
And since our image is in numbers, so we are going to use the Deloused or Helsing's deal with numbers.
So our regular expression is already closed.
Now what you can do is that you can just write in votes.
And you can now use the capturing drops and you can sorry, not the capturing, but you can use the
concept of not capturing groups and you can use the name group here as well.
So if you want to, let's say, print out my image, which in the previous guest you would have just
specified by writing one a hill in this case where you're going to do it, you're going to specify a
colon that is again and on capturing group.
And you have to write an age which is basically something you have defined to the second argument of
this string.
Run this code.
All right, it is undefined local variable or method M. I guess we have to specify X here because we
have named it as X run this now and you can see that it is printed out my age.
Now, if you just want to print out my name, you can just write a name over here, run this and you
can see that it is printed out my name.
So you can do it for the previous example as well in which we were having time, we were having the
type and we were having the message.
So you can do it for all of these.
So you can just specify a space.
You can specify the third argument over here since in the previous case we had time.
So you can just specify the time.
Well, here, that is.
Eleven fifty now, and you can specify the second argument as the time that was enforced, and you can
just specify.
Logged in a hill and in the regular expression, you have to use the very same regular expressions that
were used before, but you have to give them certain names and you have to specify this non capturing
group of question mark over here.
And that is going to do your job.
And then to print them out, you have to just write in votes.
You have to write in the variable which has been defined over here, and you have to write in the name
of the argument you want to bring down.
So for the name, you have to print a name for the second time.
You have to print on the second thing.
And similar goes on for all that stuff.
So unnamed group, basically, it is going to return a mascot object, which you can access to read
the result, which is right, this name here, which we are using to just get my name and age.
If you just ride in age here, so that are basically the namedrop that are returning a match, that
object which you are using right here to read the result of the error you are using.
So I hope you have now understood the concept of capturing a non capturing group as well as the namedrop.
So I guess that's it with the storyline.
It was an extensive tutorial, but it was a very informative tutorial.
A lot of advanced topics were covered in this tutorial.
So I hope you go on and remind us if you have not understood anything, and I hope if you just give
it a look back, you will get and understand everything.
And if you still don't get it, feel free to ask.
So I will see you guys in the next tutorial.
Thank you for now.